[Music]
12 signs your computer has been hacked
cyberattacks have recently become a very
popular problem so everyone is worried
about protecting their data to prevent
your passwords or other important data
from being stolen you have to pay
attention to any changes on your
computer your printer doesn't work
properly and you don't know what it
means your webcam behaves unusually
we're going to tell you about 12
important signs that your computer has
been hacked and your data and pictures
have been stolen number 12 the antivirus
is switched off antivirus programs are
pretty hard to disable even when you
want to
they have special safety protocols that
ask you two or even three times if you
are sure that you don't want the program
to work so it's almost impossible that
you turn it off accidentally the first
thing that good hackers do is disable
the antivirus so that you can't detect
the intrusion but you are smarter than
them right so as soon as you notice that
your antivirus is off turn it back on
and contact a specialist number 11 you
receive fake antivirus warnings
[Music]
if you see antivirus warnings that look
different or unusual this is a clear
sign of a hack another bad sign is if
you have a new antivirus you didn't
install however before you start to
worry check if your old antivirus
software it was updated maybe it just
looks different now number 10
your passwords don't work if you can't
access some of your accounts and you're
sure you didn't change your passwords
and forget about it your computer has
most likely been hacked fortunately most
services have the two-factor
authentication so you can restore your
passwords by having a code sent to your
phone number
once you've done it change passwords
even for the accounts that apparently
haven't been hacked yet tell all your
friends not to open messages from you
and not to go through the links sent
from your accounts number nine your
number of friends has grown if you see
some people on your social network pages
that you don't know and there are many
of them it's a clear sign that your
computer or at least your account has
been hacked
check the chats with your friends for
spam messages number eight new icons
appear on your dashboard when you launch
your browser and notice new icons on
your dashboard this might be a sign of
the infiltration of some dangerous code
onto your computer don't run unknown
applications if you don't want to make
the hackers job easier try to delete
them from your computer if you can
number seven the cursor moves on its own
[Music]
if you notice that your cursor is moving
without your control and is highlighting
something it means your computer has
definitely been hacked someone is
probably doing something at this very
moment what you should do is disable the
internet connection as soon as possible
of course after you finish watching this
video and like it
this means disconnecting the ethernet
cable or turning off your wireless
router until a specialist arrives and
fixes the problem number 6 your printer
doesn't work properly you might be
surprised but cyberattacks influence not
only the computer itself but also your
peripheral devices for example if your
printer refuses to print something out
it might be a worrying signal or you're
just out of paper the same applies for
all other devices connected to your
computer number 5 you are redirected to
different websites you should be alert
if your browser keeps redirecting to
different websites
of course maybe it's your own fault do
you remember visiting some
suspicious-looking internet sites if not
your system might have been hacked it's
time to call a specialist if you type
something into a search engine and
instead of Google pages you go to
another page you don't know the same
goes for situations when you see too
many pop-up windows
[Music]
number four your files are deleted by
someone else
this is a 100% sign of a hack if you see
that your folders are empty
don't panic there are some tools that
can restore deleted files so this is not
the most pressing issue but the safety
of your system
is number three your data is on the
Internet
even though you didn't put it there
you've probably heard many stories in
the news about celebrities whose photos
were stolen and shared with the entire
world this is a terrible situation to be
in and this can happen to anyone
it's just that only celebrity stories
end up in the newspapers
hackers can start blackmailing you
threatening to share your information
with your friends first take care of
your credit cards call your bank and
tell them to block the cards that you
have used to pay for something online
only after your money is safe call a
specialist that can deal with the safety
problem the stolen data can't be
returned so whatever is online stays
online
try not to store files you don't want to
be stolen from your computer number two
there is unusual webcam behavior check
your webcam indicator if it is on or
blinking make sure no applications are
launched that require a webcam such as
Skype FaceTime or others if you don't
see a reason for the webcam to be on
reboot the system and check again
if the indicator is on again you have a
problem disconnect from the internet and
call a specialist number one your
computer works very slowly if even the
simplest operations take your computer a
very long time to complete and if you
notice a significant drop in the speed
of your internet connection it might
mean that someone hacked your computer
first try to reboot your computer and
check the performance again maybe you
just need a hardware upgrade if nothing
changes
launch the task manager and look for the
processes that are eating your ramp
shutdown all tasks that you can and see
how well the computer works if you
experience problems after that well you
already know what you should disconnect
and who you should call
so let's sum up and repeat what you
should do warn your friends and other
people to whom you send emails that your
computer has been hacked tell them not
to open messages from you and not to
click on any links from you tell your
bank about a possible leak of your data
find out how to protect your money
delete all unfamiliar programs and also
those you can't launch install a
reliable anti-virus program and scan
your system some companies make trial
versions change the passwords on all
your accounts if you still feel that the
problem is not solved ask a specialist
hit the like button if you think that
cyber safety is very important these
days share it with your friends who have
devices with internet access so share it
with all of them and click Subscribe to
join us on the bright side of life
[Music]